Welcome back.
We've learned the true power of Python and the true power Python comes from the community and the fact
that there so many Python developers that we're able to leverage all these modules.
All these libraries that people have built to really do really interesting things so that we can fast
track our progress and build some really great projects really really fast something that we're definitely
going to do in this course.
But you may have a question this pie jokes that I just installed this library.
I mean it has version zero point five point zero.
And this is called versioning in Python.
And in most programming languages where the first number is usually a version where if you have bug
fixes you would go from zero to want to so that you update 5 will be a new release maybe some added
features.
And the last number or based on how you look at it the first number the major number is usually breaking
changes or major versions.
So pie jokes looks like it's fairly young it's zero point five but something like Pi code Sal that is
2.5 looks like a mature library because they're in version two point five.
And here's the thing libraries are maintained by people right by programmers.
We're constantly making mistakes.
There's always going to be bugs.
There's goal always going to be things that you can improve upon.
So these are always improving versions are always increasing.
And when you start working on large projects you start installing different packages different modules
that perhaps only work with certain versions together so that maybe pi jokes zero point five is fine.
But on a new project two years from now I want to use pi jokes but the latest version of Pi jokes.
Well what can I do in this case.
I can uninstall let's say Pip 3 uninstall the old version of Pi jokes so let's say pi jokes
and maybe have a new version of Pi jokes that I can install now what I do Pip three install pi jokes.
This is going to give me the latest version or I could even do double equals and then give it a version
like zero point four point zero.
So now if I do Pip three list I have the older version of Pi Jos.
Now the reason I'm showing you this is that sometimes you want for your different projects different
versions of a library because maybe a project that you started five years ago really requires pi jokes
zero point four and this new project that you're starting requires pi jokes.
That's well let's say upgraded to version 2.
So how do we do this because right now the way we've installed thinks there's only one version of my
computer that I can use.
This is what we use for what we call virtual environments.
And it answers the question of hey how can we have two versions of all these packages of all these modules
on the same machine and still have different projects using different versions.
Well there's a tool that you can install called Pip and which allows you to use Pip and also this virtual
end to install packages based on each project.
So each project has its own packages or if you're using pi charm which I usually recommend especially
on big projects you have virtual environments by default.
Remember this V and folder well v env folder is a virtual environment created by Python.
As a matter of fact let's say I want to create a new project here I can create a project.
Let's say the or new jokes project and here if in the dropdown you see that I have a new environment
using virtual health so I can use virtual EMP which is built into pi charm to create a virtual environment.
You also see that I have something called Pip EMF which I mentioned but usually you select the virtual
environment.
And when you do create let's say this window is fine when we do create you'll see that new jokes has
its own virtual environment.
And now any library that I install in here will have its own package right in here.
So it doesn't affect any other projects.
If I go to PY The End dot c f g you see that the environment is setup with version three point seven.
This is my home.
And we're able to add packages right in here and you see that.
No I don't have any pie jokes in here because this is a new project with a whole new environment.
If I create a new file let's say in here we'll say new file and let's call it.
Test test.
Dot pi and let's say import pi jokes we'll say pi jokes dot get joke What was it Alice.
Just copy this
and if I run this will I get an error.
No module named pi jokes because I have an entire virtual environment.
It's like a separate universe where I can install here whatever I want so that it doesn't interfere
with the outside world.
And usually when you're you're working on project you want to create them in virtual environments like
this.
Again this may not seem like a big problem right now especially if you haven't worked in the industry
but this trust me is a common problem where packages are constantly being updated and you have packages
that depend on other packages that need to have certain versions.
So a virtual environment to contain all the packages that you use into your project into this small
little environment is really really important.
And as you start working for bigger companies you'll notice that in your workplace they're definitely
going to be using this system.
That's a lot of talking for me.
Let's take a break and I'll see you in the next one.
By.